[Music]
nine things you should never forbid
children from doing psychologists think
that limits make a child feel safer and
calmer
however certain restraints can do just
the opposite making your little one feel
insecure and slowing their development
here are some things you should allow
your kids to do for instance crying and
being noise you may say no way how will
this work well just have a look at our
tips we promise your new behavior will
be the best gift for your children one
asking questions
[Music]
a child grows and learns about the world
naturally finding more and more
questions it may be hard for parents to
answer all of them in the evening when
they're tired but quality time with your
kids help them develop also it creates a
strong bond between you that will stay
with you even when your children grow up
by the way don't forget to ask your
child some questions as well
one of them might be how was your day if
at first your child doesn't want to
respond or just says something like fine
or everything's okay you don't need to
insist on a fuller answer tell your
child about your day things you have
learned and things you have enjoyed this
provides them with a good role model and
will encourage them to talk to you about
their experiences to feeling angry or
jealous a child is a person and they
have the right to have negative feelings
remember that their willpower isn't
strong yet and they have trouble
controlling themselves your kids
shouldn't just stop expressing their
feelings if we think they're bad ones
three being greedy
[Music]
a child has the right to have things of
their own just like adults do
never shame them for being greedy
instead ask them to exchange your toys
with other kids in this case they'll
grow generous and kind however if your
child doesn't want to share their toys
with others never force them to do it
for saying no your child isn't your
subject they're a family member in their
right forbidding them to say no to you
means violating their borders instead
try to find a way to explain to them why
they sometimes must do what they don't
want to five having secrets
[Music]
the older your kids are the more they
need their privacy you should know
what's going on in their lives but make
sure you don't trespass your kids Trust
is priceless and it's best not to risk
it by reading their Diaries or pressing
them for secrets however always show
your kid that you're interested in them
you can ask them about their friends or
even best friends this will enable your
child to trust you and to open up to you
if they face a difficult situation try
not to interrupt your kids when they are
telling you a story make comments only
when they ask you to do not forget about
physical contact hug your child or grab
their hand if you are in a bad mood or
simply don't feel like listening to your
son or daughter right now tell them
about it and set a time when you can
talk together 6 being afraid little kids
may become scared of a doctor or a
strange relative and that's fine don't
shame them for being afraid but let them
know you're there and there's nothing to
fear also if you have a son never tell
him anything like boys are not meant to
get scared we're men don't have a right
to express their feelings instead say it
differently it's fine to feel like that
what frightened you in this case your
child will learn to trust you
seven being noisy
[Music]
don't spoil your kids childhood let them
sing songs and make noises when they
grow up the society won't let them do
many things and will force them to
follow a lot of rules so childhood is
the only period of their lives when they
are free to do so eight crying children
feel everything much more vividly than
adults don't forbid your kid to cry nor
shame them for tears it's better to help
them understand why they're crying and
find a way to deal with it when we say
don't cry or don't shout a child hears
only don't express your emotions instead
you can say it differently it seems
you're tired or you just got upset you
should always try to understand your
child's feelings nine making mistakes
[Music]
no one likes making mistakes and it's
even worse when an adult scolds you for
them it's no surprise that a child won't
ever want to do anything on their own
after that never say you should be
ashamed of yourself or you're a bad
person
these phrases might upset your child
instead say we all make mistakes they
help us learn now here's the little
bonus don't be shy to offer your help
most of us find it difficult asking
other people for help a child who is not
used to getting help with small things
won't ask their parents for assistance
in difficult situations either take
small steps at first offer your child's
help with cleaning their room or doing
their homework don't be afraid to ask in
fact asking your child if they need help
every day gives you the chance to be
there for them when they need you the
most however this doesn't mean that you
should start doing everything for your
kid do you know any other parenting
mistakes that all of us should avoid
share them in the comments don't forget
to hit the like button below the video
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]